Create snapshot-target-is-not-a-snapshot-table.md (#3659)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/faqs/Snapshots/snapshot-target-is-not-a-snapshot-table.md

---
title: "Debug Snapshot target is not a snapshot table errors"

> description: "Debugging Snapshot target is not a snapshot table (missing "dbt_scd_id", "dbt_valid_from", "dbt_valid_to") errors"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Debugging Snapshot target is not a snapshot table"
```

> sidebar: "Snapshot target is not a snapshot table"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: "Snapshot target is not a snapshot table"
```

> sidebar_label: "Snapshot target is not a snapshot table"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar: "Snapshot target is not a snapshot table"
```

id: snapshot-target-is-not-a-snapshot-table
---

> If you see the following error when trying to snapshot:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you see the following error when you try executing the snapshot command:
```

> Snapshot target is not a snapshot table (missing `dbt_scd_id`, `dbt_valid_from`, `dbt_valid_to`)

> Double check that you have not inadvertently caused your snapshot to behave like table materializations by setting its `materialized` config to be `table`. Prior to dbt version 1.4, it was possible to have a snapshot like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Double check that you haven't inadvertently caused your snapshot to behave like table materializations by setting its `materialized` config to be `table`. Prior to dbt version 1.4, it was possible to have a snapshot like this:
```

```sql
{% snapshot snappy %}
  {{ config(materialized = 'table', ...) }}
  ...
{% endsnapshot %}
```

> What would happen then is dbt treated snapshots like tables (issuing `create or replace table ...` statements) **silently** instead of actually snapshotting data (SCD2 via `insert` / `merge` statements). When upgrading to dbt versions 1.4 and above, dbt now raises a Parsing Error (instead of silently treating snapshots like tables) that reads:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt is treating snapshots like tables (issuing `create or replace table ...` statements) **silently** instead of actually snapshotting data (SCD2 via `insert` / `merge` statements). When upgrading to dbt versions 1.4 and higher, dbt now raises a Parsing Error (instead of silently treating snapshots like tables) that reads:
```

> What would happen then is dbt treated snapshots like tables (issuing `create or replace table ...` statements) **silently** instead of actually snapshotting data (SCD2 via `insert` / `merge` statements). When upgrading to dbt versions 1.4 and above, dbt now rases a Parsing Error (instead of silently treating snapshots like tables) that reads:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What would happen then is dbt treated snapshots like tables (issuing `create or replace table ...` statements) **silently** instead of actually snapshotting data (SCD2 via `insert` / `merge` statements). When upgrading to dbt versions 1.4 and above, dbt now raises a Parsing Error (instead of silently treating snapshots like tables) that reads:
```

```
A snapshot must have a materialized value of 'snapshot'
```

> This tells you to change your `materialized` config to `snapshot`. However, as soon as you do that, you may run into the error above (missing "dbt_scd_id", etc). This is because, previously, when dbt treated snapshots like tables - there were no [snapshot meta-fields](/docs/build/snapshots#snapshot-meta-fields) added to your snapshot target table - and because those meta-fields don't exist, dbt correctly identifies and tells you that you intend to snapshot into a table that isn't a snapshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tells you to change your `materialized` config to `snapshot`. But when you make that change, you might encounter an error message saying that certain fields like `dbt_scd_id` are missing. This error happens because, previously, when dbt treated snapshots as tables, it didn't include the necessary [snapshot meta-fields](/docs/build/snapshots#snapshot-meta-fields) in your target table. Since those meta-fields don't exist, dbt correctly identifies that you're trying to create a snapshot in a table that isn't actually a snapshot.
```

> When this happens, you have to start from scratch &mdash; re-snapshotting your source data as if it was the first time by dropping your "snapshot" which isn't a real snapshot table. Then dbt snapshot will create the snapshot a new and insert the snapshot meta-fields as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this happens, you have to start from scratch &mdash; re-snapshotting your source data as if it was the first time by dropping your "snapshot" which isn't a real snapshot table. Then dbt snapshot will create a new snapshot and insert the snapshot meta-fields as expected.
```

---

> title: Debugging 'Snapshot target is not a snapshot table (missing "dbt_scd_id", "dbt_valid_from", "dbt_valid_to")' errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Debugging "Snapshot target is not a snapshot table error".
```

> title: Debugging 'Snapshot target is not a snapshot table (missing "dbt_scd_id", "dbt_valid_from", "dbt_valid_to")' errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Debugging "Snapshot target is not a snapshot table (missing `dbt_scd_id`, `dbt_valid_from`, `dbt_valid_to`)' errors"
```

description: "Debugging 'Snapshot target is not a snapshot table (missing "dbt_scd_id", "dbt_valid_from", "dbt_valid_to")' errors"

> sidebar_label: Snapshot target is not a snapshot table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: "Snapshot target is not a snapshot table"
```

> sidebar_label: 'Snapshot target is not a snapshot table'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: Snapshot target is not a snapshot table
```

id: snapshot-target-is-not-a-snapshot-table
---

If you see the following error when trying to snapshot:

> > Snapshot target is not a snapshot table (missing "dbt_scd_id", "dbt_valid_from", "dbt_valid_to")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Snapshot target is not a snapshot table (missing `dbt_scd_id`, `dbt_valid_from`, `dbt_valid_to`)
```

Reviewer: fix code

> Double check that you have not inadvertantly caused your snapshot to behave like table materializations by setting its `materialized` config to be `table`. Prior to dbt versions 1.4,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Double check that you have not inadvertently caused your snapshot to behave like table materializations by setting its `materialized` config to be `table`. Prior to dbt versions 1.4,
```

> it was possible to have a snapshot like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it was possible to have a snapshot like this:
```

```sql
{% snapshot snappy %}
  {{ config(materialized = 'table', ...) }}
  ...
{% endsnapshot %}
```

What would happen then is dbt treated snapshots like tables (issuing `create or replace table ...` statements) **silently** instead of actually snapshotting data (SCD2 via `insert` / `merge` statements). When upgrading to dbt
versions 1.4 and above, dbt now rases a Parsing Error (instead of silently treating snapshots like tables) that reads:

```
A snapshot must have a materialized value of 'snapshot'
```

> This tells you to change your `materialzed` config to `snapshot`. However, as soon as you do that, you may run into the error above (missing "dbt_scd_id", etc). This is because, previously, when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tells you to change your `materialized` config to `snapshot`. However, as soon as you do that, you may run into the error above (missing "dbt_scd_id", etc). This is because, previously, when
```

> dbt treated snapshots like tables - there was no [snapshot meta-fields](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/build/snapshots#snapshot-meta-fields) added to your snapshot target table - and because those

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt treated snapshots like tables - there were no [snapshot meta-fields](/docs/build/snapshots#snapshot-meta-fields) added to your snapshot target table - and because those
```

meta-fields don't exist, dbt correctly identifies and tells you that you intend to snapshot into a table that isn't a snapshot.

> When this happens, it means you have to start from scratch - resnapshotting your source data as if it was the first time by dropping your "snapshot" that isn't a real snapshot table. Then dbt snapshot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this happens, you have to start from scratch &mdash; re-snapshotting your source data as if it was the first time by dropping your "snapshot" which isn't a real snapshot table. Then dbt snapshot
```
